# Tableau Fundamentals for Business Leaders
In this track, you’ll learn how to use Tableau—one of the world’s most popular business intelligence tools. Best of all, there’s no prior experience required. With its user-friendly drag-and-drop functionality it can be used by everyone to quickly clean, analyze, and visualize your team’s data. Through hands-on exercises, you'll learn how to organize and analyze data, create presentation-ready visualizations, build insightful dashboards, and apply analytics to worksheets. You'll then focus on one specific sector, Hospitality, to learn how to create industry specific visualizations and dashboards. You'll then have an introduction on how to use Tableau to translate markting and finance concepts into insights. Case studies on customer conversion, penetration and churn are also available, so you'll have the chance to learn how to best apply your business skills using Tableau. By the end of the track, you'll be ready to pass Tableau’s Desktop Specialist certification and start applying your Tableau skills for your own analyses in a business leadership role.

## 1. Introduction to Tableau
Tableau is a widely used business intelligence (BI) and analytics software trusted by companies like Amazon, Experian, and Unilever to explore, visualize, and securely share data in the form of Workbooks and Dashboards. With its user-friendly drag-and-drop functionality it can be used by everyone to quickly clean, analyze, and visualize your team’s data. You’ll learn how to navigate Tableau’s interface and connect and present data using easy-to-understand visualizations. By the end of this training, you’ll have the skills you need to confidently explore Tableau and build impactful data dashboards. Let’s dive in.

## 2. Creating Dashboards in Tableau
Dashboards are a must-have tool in today’s data-driven world. By combining curated data visualizations, dashboards allow users to interpret and ask their own questions of data. By reducing the time to insight and empowering business analysts, dashboards can have a big impact on business performance. Tableau's dashboarding abilities are powerful and easy to use. In this course, you'll learn to apply dashboard-composition best practices, add interactive or explanatory elements, and use dashboard actions to make your dashboard interactive. Additionally, you'll learn to modify an existing dashboard layout for mobile devices to share as an image or a PDF. Finally, you'll learn how to share your data story through Tableau's story functionality.

## 3. Creating Dashboards for Hospitality Professionals in Tableau
Data visualizations can be very different depending on the industry you work in. One of Tableau's greatest strenghts is the vast range of visualizations offered, which makes it easy for users to create customized dashboards based on specific industries' needs. In this course, we will focus on the Hospitality sector. You'll start by learning how the most commonly used datasets in the Hotel industry look like, and how the most relevant KPIs are used. Then, you will focus on the Revenue Management discipline and learn how to optimize Revenue and Cost related visualizations into a Dashboard. Finally, you will learn more complex visualizations, such as What-if scenarios and Forecasting capabilities. 

## 4. Introduction to Marketing Visualizations in Tableau
Powerful data visualizations are key in today’s business world. By displaying the most clear and insightful content, dashboards allow data analytics leaders to take the right key business decisions in the most critical situations. In this course, you will first familiarize with common marketing KPIs and understand how to calculate them via calculated fields in Tableau. Then you’ll learn the most effective ways to translate key marketing concepts into effective visualizations. You will get to recognize how different ways of displaying content can empower very different marketing decisions. Lastly, you will learn how to share your stories in an offline mode to any kind of marketing audience.

## 5. Introduction to Finance Visualizations in Tableau
Data visualizations are used daily by business organisations to explain and officially report their financial results. In this course, you will dig into a financial dataset, understanding how to group accounts into financial buckets and common financial KPIs. You will then learn what are the most used visualizations for Income Statement presentations and analysis. Finally, you will get to understand some basic finance Business Planning principles, and how to best visualize them using dashboards and stories.

## 6. Case Study: Analyzing Customer Churn in Tableau
Are you ready to apply your Tableau skills to a real-world dataset? For subscription-based businesses, reducing customer churn is a top priority. In this Tableau case study, you'll investigate a dataset from an example telecom company called Databel and analyze their churn rates. Analyzing churn doesn’t just mean knowing what the churn rate is: it’s also about figuring out why customers are churning at the rate they are, and how to reduce churn. You'll answer these questions by creating calculated fields and various visualizations in Tableau, such as dual-axis graphs and scatter plots. You'll make your graphs dynamic by using filters and parameters, and combine everything into a story to share your insights.

## 7. Case Study: Analyzing Customer Conversion and Penetration in Tableau
After having investigated the concept of customer churn, we will now focus on exploring the concepts of customer conversion and penetration, and the way Tableau can be used to understand and tackle them effectively in a business world. Analysing conversion and penetration, allows business subscribers to understand the real impact of their marketing decisions on their customer base, and adjust their actions accordingly based on different strategies and tactics. In this case study, you will start from in-depth analysing a dataset coming from the logistics industry. You will then understand how to calculate conversion and penetration rates. Finally, you will learn how to best visualize these concepts using Tableau visualizations, such as waterfall and funnel charts.

